distribution/docs/src/main/resources/content/_configuring/managing-crl.adoc, before:

:title: Managing Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
:type: configuration
:status: published
:parent: Managing Keystores and Certificates
:summary: Managing certificate revocation list.
:order: 01

== {title}

* *{hardening-step}*

For hardening purposes, it is recommended to implement a way to verify the CRL at least daily.

A Certificate Revocation List is a collection of formerly-valid certificates that should explicitly _not_ be accepted.

=== Creating a Certificate Revocation List (CRL)

Create a CRL in which the token issuer's certificate is valid.
The example uses OpenSSL.

`$> openssl ca -gencrl -out crl-tokenissuer-valid.pem`

.Windows and OpenSSL
[NOTE]
====
Windows does not include OpenSSL by default.
For Windows platforms, a additional download of https://www.openssl.org/source/[OpenSSL] or an alternative is required.
====

==== Revoke a Certificate and Create a New CRL that Contains the Revoked Certificate

----
$> openssl ca -revoke tokenissuer.crt

$> openssl ca -gencrl -out crl-tokenissuer-revoked.pem
----

==== Viewing a CRL

. Use the following command to view the serial numbers of the revoked certificates:
`$> openssl crl -inform PEM -text -noout -in crl-tokenissuer-revoked.pem`

=== Enabling Certificate Revocation

[NOTE]
====
Enabling CRL revocation or modifying the CRL file will require a restart of ${branding} to apply updates.
====

. Place the CRL in ${home_directory}/etc/keystores.
. Add the line `org.apache.ws.security.crypto.merlin.x509crl.file=etc/keystores/<CRL_FILENAME>` to the following files (Replace `<CRL_FILENAME>` with the URL or file path of the CRL location):
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/server/encryption.properties`
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/issuer/encryption.properties`
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/server/signature.properties`
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/issuer/signature.properties`
. (Replace <CRL_FILENAME> with the file path or URL of the CRL file used in previous step.)

Adding this property will also enable CRL revocation for any context policy implementing PKI authentication.
For example, adding an authentication policy in the Web Context Policy Manager of `/search=SAML|PKI` will disable basic authentication, require a certificate for the search UI, and allow a SAML SSO session to be created.
If a certificate is not in the CRL, it will be allowed through, otherwise it will get a 401 error.
If no certificate is provided, the guest handler will grant guest access.

This also enables CRL revocation for the STS endpoint.
The STS CRL Interceptor monitors the same `encryption.properties` file and operates in an identical manner to the PKI Authenication's CRL handler. Enabling the CRL via the `encryption.properties` file will also enable it for the STS, and also requires a restart.

==== Add Revocation to a Web Context

The PKIHandler implements CRL revocation, so any web context that is configured to use PKI authentication will also use CRL revocation if revocation is enabled.

. After enabling revocation (see above), open the *Web Context Policy Manager*.
. Add or modify a Web Context to use PKI in authentication. For example, enabling CRL for the search ui endpoint would require adding an authorization policy of `/search=SAML|PKI`
. If guest access is required, add `GUEST` to the policy. Ex, `/search=SAML|PKI|GUEST`.

With guest access, a user with a revoked certificate will be given a 401 error, but users without a certificate will be able to access the web context as the guest user.

The STS CRL interceptor does not need a web context specified.
The CRL interceptor for the STS will become active after specifying the CRL file path, or the URL for the CRL, in the `encryption.properties` file and restarting ${branding}.

[NOTE]
====
Disabling or enabling CRL revocation or modifying the CRL file will require a restart of ${branding} to apply updates.
If CRL checking is already enabled, adding a new context via the *Web Context Policy Manager* will not require a restart.
====

==== Adding Revocation to an Endpoint

[NOTE]
====
This section explains how to add CXF's CRL revocation method to an endpoint and not the CRL revocation method in the `PKIHandler`.
====

This guide assumes that the endpoint being created uses CXF and is being started via Blueprint from inside the OSGi container.
If other tools are being used the configuration may differ.

Add the following property to the `jasws` endpoint in the endpoint's `blueprint.xml`:

[source]
----
<entry key="ws-security.enableRevocation" value="true"/>
----

.Example xml snippet for the `jaxws:endpoint` with the property:
[source]
----
<jaxws:endpoint id="Test" implementor="#testImpl"
                wsdlLocation="classpath:META-INF/wsdl/TestService.wsdl"
                address="/TestService">

    <jaxws:properties>
        <entry key="ws-security.enableRevocation" value="true"/>
    </jaxws:properties>
</jaxws:endpoint>
----

==== Verifying Revocation

A *Warning* similar to the following will be displayed in the logs of the source and endpoint showing the exception encountered during certificate validation:

[source]
----
11:48:00,016 | WARN  | tp2085517656-302 | WSS4JInInterceptor               | ecurity.wss4j.WSS4JInInterceptor  330 | 164 - org.apache.cxf.cxf-rt-ws-security - 2.7.3 |
org.apache.ws.security.WSSecurityException: General security error (Error during certificate path validation: Certificate has been revoked, reason: unspecified)
    at org.apache.ws.security.components.crypto.Merlin.verifyTrust(Merlin.java:838)[161:org.apache.ws.security.wss4j:1.6.9]
    at org.apache.ws.security.validate.SignatureTrustValidator.verifyTrustInCert(SignatureTrustValidator.java:213)[161:org.apache.ws.security.wss4j:1.6.9]

[ ... section removed for space]

Caused by: java.security.cert.CertPathValidatorException: Certificate has been revoked, reason: unspecified
    at sun.security.provider.certpath.PKIXMasterCertPathValidator.validate(PKIXMasterCertPathValidator.java:139)[:1.6.0_33]
    at sun.security.provider.certpath.PKIXCertPathValidator.doValidate(PKIXCertPathValidator.java:330)[:1.6.0_33]
    at sun.security.provider.certpath.PKIXCertPathValidator.engineValidate(PKIXCertPathValidator.java:178)[:1.6.0_33]
    at java.security.cert.CertPathValidator.validate(CertPathValidator.java:250)[:1.6.0_33]
    at org.apache.ws.security.components.crypto.Merlin.verifyTrust(Merlin.java:814)[161:org.apache.ws.security.wss4j:1.6.9]
    ... 45 more
----

Commit message:

DDF-4212 Added the ability to get a CRL from an HTTPS URL - Modified PropertiesLoader to have the ability to maintain system properties as values instead of getting their actual value. - Used a scheduler to download the crl so the CRL is pulled down every 30 minutes. - Used FileBackedOutputStream to refrain from downloading the entire file all at once into memory - If an error occurs while downloading the CRL, an error alert will be posted to the Admin Console

distribution/docs/src/main/resources/content/_configuring/managing-crl.adoc, after:

:title: Managing Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
:type: configuration
:status: published
:parent: Managing Keystores and Certificates
:summary: Managing certificate revocation list.
:order: 01

== {title}

* *{hardening-step}*

For hardening purposes, it is recommended to implement a way to verify the CRL at least daily.

A Certificate Revocation List is a collection of formerly-valid certificates that should explicitly _not_ be accepted.

=== Creating a Certificate Revocation List (CRL)

Create a CRL in which the token issuer's certificate is valid.
The example uses OpenSSL.

`$> openssl ca -gencrl -out crl-tokenissuer-valid.pem`

.Windows and OpenSSL
[NOTE]
====
Windows does not include OpenSSL by default.
For Windows platforms, a additional download of https://www.openssl.org/source/[OpenSSL] or an alternative is required.
====

==== Revoke a Certificate and Create a New CRL that Contains the Revoked Certificate

----
$> openssl ca -revoke tokenissuer.crt

$> openssl ca -gencrl -out crl-tokenissuer-revoked.pem
----

==== Viewing a CRL

. Use the following command to view the serial numbers of the revoked certificates:
`$> openssl crl -inform PEM -text -noout -in crl-tokenissuer-revoked.pem`

=== Enabling Certificate Revocation

[NOTE]
====
Enabling CRL revocation or modifying the CRL file will require a restart of ${branding} to apply updates.
====

. Place the CRL in ${home_directory}/etc/keystores.
. Add the line `org.apache.ws.security.crypto.merlin.x509crl.file=etc/keystores/<CRL_FILENAME>` to the following files (Replace `<CRL_FILENAME>` with the URL or file path of the CRL location):
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/server/encryption.properties`
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/issuer/encryption.properties`
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/server/signature.properties`
.. `${home_directory}/etc/ws-security/issuer/signature.properties`
. (Replace <CRL_FILENAME> with the file path or URL of the CRL file used in previous step.)

Adding this property will also enable CRL revocation for any context policy implementing PKI authentication.
For example, adding an authentication policy in the Web Context Policy Manager of `/search=SAML|PKI` will disable basic authentication, require a certificate for the search UI, and allow a SAML SSO session to be created.
If a certificate is not in the CRL, it will be allowed through, otherwise it will get a 401 error.
If no certificate is provided, the guest handler will grant guest access.

This also enables CRL revocation for the STS endpoint.
The STS CRL Interceptor monitors the same `encryption.properties` file and operates in an identical manner to the PKI Authenication's CRL handler. Enabling the CRL via the `encryption.properties` file will also enable it for the STS, and also requires a restart.

If the CRL cannot be placed in ${home_directory}/etc/keystores but can be accessed via an *HTTPS* URL:

. Navigate to the ${admin-console}.
. Navigate to *System -> Configuration -> Certificate Revocation List (CRL)*
. Add the *HTTPS* URL under *CRL URL address*
. Check the *Enable CRL via URL* option

A local CRL file will be created and the `encryption.properties` and `signature.properties` files will be set as mentioned above.

[WARNING]
====
Verify that the values in the `encryption.properties` and `signature.properties` are still using system properties from the `custom.system.properties` file.
For instance, unless it was changed manually, the value for `org.apache.ws.security.crypto.merlin.keystore.file` should be `${javax.net.ssl.keyStore}` instead of the actual keystore file path.
If the files are not using system properties make sure they are protected the same way as the `custom.system.properties` file.
====

==== Add Revocation to a Web Context

The PKIHandler implements CRL revocation, so any web context that is configured to use PKI authentication will also use CRL revocation if revocation is enabled.

. After enabling revocation (see above), open the *Web Context Policy Manager*.
. Add or modify a Web Context to use PKI in authentication. For example, enabling CRL for the search ui endpoint would require adding an authorization policy of `/search=SAML|PKI`
. If guest access is required, add `GUEST` to the policy. Ex, `/search=SAML|PKI|GUEST`.

With guest access, a user with a revoked certificate will be given a 401 error, but users without a certificate will be able to access the web context as the guest user.

The STS CRL interceptor does not need a web context specified.
The CRL interceptor for the STS will become active after specifying the CRL file path, or the URL for the CRL, in the `encryption.properties` file and restarting ${branding}.

[NOTE]
====
Disabling or enabling CRL revocation or modifying the CRL file will require a restart of ${branding} to apply updates.
If CRL checking is already enabled, adding a new context via the *Web Context Policy Manager* will not require a restart.
====

==== Adding Revocation to an Endpoint

[NOTE]
====
This section explains how to add CXF's CRL revocation method to an endpoint and not the CRL revocation method in the `PKIHandler`.
====

This guide assumes that the endpoint being created uses CXF and is being started via Blueprint from inside the OSGi container.
If other tools are being used the configuration may differ.

Add the following property to the `jasws` endpoint in the endpoint's `blueprint.xml`:

[source]
----
<entry key="ws-security.enableRevocation" value="true"/>
----

.Example xml snippet for the `jaxws:endpoint` with the property:
[source]
----
<jaxws:endpoint id="Test" implementor="#testImpl"
                wsdlLocation="classpath:META-INF/wsdl/TestService.wsdl"
                address="/TestService">

    <jaxws:properties>
        <entry key="ws-security.enableRevocation" value="true"/>
    </jaxws:properties>
</jaxws:endpoint>
----

==== Verifying Revocation

A *Warning* similar to the following will be displayed in the logs of the source and endpoint showing the exception encountered during certificate validation:

[source]
----
11:48:00,016 | WARN  | tp2085517656-302 | WSS4JInInterceptor               | ecurity.wss4j.WSS4JInInterceptor  330 | 164 - org.apache.cxf.cxf-rt-ws-security - 2.7.3 |
org.apache.ws.security.WSSecurityException: General security error (Error during certificate path validation: Certificate has been revoked, reason: unspecified)
    at org.apache.ws.security.components.crypto.Merlin.verifyTrust(Merlin.java:838)[161:org.apache.ws.security.wss4j:1.6.9]
    at org.apache.ws.security.validate.SignatureTrustValidator.verifyTrustInCert(SignatureTrustValidator.java:213)[161:org.apache.ws.security.wss4j:1.6.9]

[ ... section removed for space]

Caused by: java.security.cert.CertPathValidatorException: Certificate has been revoked, reason: unspecified
    at sun.security.provider.certpath.PKIXMasterCertPathValidator.validate(PKIXMasterCertPathValidator.java:139)[:1.6.0_33]
    at sun.security.provider.certpath.PKIXCertPathValidator.doValidate(PKIXCertPathValidator.java:330)[:1.6.0_33]
    at sun.security.provider.certpath.PKIXCertPathValidator.engineValidate(PKIXCertPathValidator.java:178)[:1.6.0_33]
    at java.security.cert.CertPathValidator.validate(CertPathValidator.java:250)[:1.6.0_33]
    at org.apache.ws.security.components.crypto.Merlin.verifyTrust(Merlin.java:814)[161:org.apache.ws.security.wss4j:1.6.9]
    ... 45 more
----
